Photo Album Manager: Written for version 0.55
----------------------------------------------------
Author: Steven Levin
Date: 06/12/2003
Email: steven at tux dot appstate dot edu

Table of Contents:
-------------------------
I. Getting Started
II. Listing Albums
III. Creating a New Album
IV. Adding/Editing/Removing Photos from an Album
V. Navigating Your Albums


I. Getting Started:
--------------------------
1. First navigate to the administrative side of the Photo Album module.
2. It can be found under the Site Content Tab of your Control Panel.
3. Click the link that says Photo Albums with the camera icon next to it.

II. Listing Albums:
--------------------------
1. When you first enter the Photo Album you will see a listing of all the
   Photo Albums which are currently in the database.
2. From this list you can go to view each individual album. In this album
   view you can see thumnail images of all the photos in the album.
3. At the top of the page with this list are two links. The first link is
   for listing albums, it will to always bring you back to this list. The
   other link says New Album and will take you to the form you need to add 
   a new photo album to the database.

III. Creating a New Album:
---------------------------------
1. When creating a new Photo Album there are five fields to fill out but 
   only one of them is actually required.
2. The name of the album is the first field and the only required one. The
   name represents this album in the listing of all the photo albums and
   throughout phpWebSite.
3. The second field is a short; it allows you to add a short description
   of your album.  This may be used in something like a search result.
4. The next option is to choose whether or not you want the album to be
   viewable by the public.  Selecting visable makes it viewable by your
   users and the public alike.  Selecting hidden keeps it out of the view 
   of the public and only administrators with access can see the album.
5. Next you can select a category for the album to go in.  This is very
   useful if you would like the album to show up as related data.  If you
   do not understand categories and wish to find out more, please refer
   to the chapter about the FatCat Categorizer.
6. Finally you can add an extended description of your photo album.  This
   is shown when listing all your albums so visitors can read about them.
   A wysiwyg html editor is provided for adding very basic html tags to the
   description.

IV. Adding/Editing/Deleting Photos from an Album:
--------------------------------------------------------
A. Adding
----------------
1. When you are viewing an album for the first time and the album has no
   photos associated with it, you have two links to add a new photo.  The
   first is under the message: No photos were found for this album; and it
   says Add a Photo.  The second is a the top of the page next to the List
   Albums link and it says New Photo.  The New Photo link will always be
   present when you are viewing an album.  Both of these links take you
   to the same form to add a new photo.
2. Two things are required when adding a new photo to the database. You
   must upload an image file and also provide a short description for that
   image.  The short description is needed to make the html valid.
   + Upload your image by clicking the browse buttom and selecting the file
     you want off of your computer.
3. After that you can choose whether or not the photo is publically viewable
   which is much like the activity for the album.
4. Finally you can add an extended description to the album which will be
   displayed when the individual photo is being viewed.

B. Editing
----------------
1. Editing a photo allows you to update the information entered when adding
   that photo to the database.  You can also remove the photo and add a new
   one if it better fits the album or description.
2. You can get to editing a photo by clicking on the edit link under its
   thumbnail in the main album view or by clicking the edit link when viewing
   an individual photo.
3. To upload a new image you must first remove the old one by checking the
   box Remove Image under the photo and then clicking Save Photo. Then click
   the browse button and select a new image off your computer. Click Save Photo
   and you are done.
4. You can also edit any of the testual data by just modifying it in the form
   and then clicking the Save Photo buttom.  You will get a message saying the
   photo was successfully saved.

C. Deleting a Photo
---------------------------
1. The are two points in the photoalbum where you can delete photos. One is
   in the main album view under each thumbnail is a delete link.  Also when
   viewing a specific photo there is a delete link at the top of the page.
2. After clicking the delete link it will take you to a Yes/No confirmation
   to make sure you want to delete the photo entirely from the album.  The 
   photo will also display below for confirmation.  Click Yes to remove the
   photo and No to cancel the deletion process.

V. Navigating Albums:
-----------------------------
Navigating albums is easy.  The are two navigation toolbars at the top and
bottom of a main album view.  The main album view is split up into pages. The 
limits on this toolbar control how many thumbnails to show per page. There are
arrows (<< and >>) provided for moving back and forth from page to page.  Also
page links are there to help jump around from page to page.  In order to view
a photo all you must do is click on the thumbnail image.  This will take you
to a big view of that one specific image.  Located at the top and bottom of the
image will be <<Prev and Next>> links to page through each individual photo.
At any time you can get back to the main album view by clicking the Back to Album
link at the top of the page.

Thanks for checking out the photoalbum module
Enjoy!