Layout creates the majority of tags within a theme. Here are the tags
you will need in your theme:

XML
---
This tag is only used when XML_MODE is enabled. It adds an xml tag to
the top of the page. (Note: XML_MODE is set in Layout's config.php file.


XML_STYLE
---------
When XML_MODE is enabled, this tag will contain the xml-stylesheet
tags.


DOCTYPE
--------
Contains the document type. Differs depending on the XML_MODE.


XHTML
-----
The <html> tag is defined here; which is why your theme should not
have one.


BASE
-----
Assigns the home url to the base tag. This is required for some
javascript processes. Remove at your own risk :)


PAGE_TITLE
-----------
Contains the page title as defined in Layout. You may replace this
with one of your own if you wish but then you can't share your
theme. You can use this elsewhere in your theme if you wish.


METATAGS
------------
Metatags defined in the Layout module appear here. Add to them as you
see fit.


JAVASCRIPT
------------
Holds the head.js content of various javascript programs used by
phpWebSite. Essential.


STYLE
----------
Contains the style links defined in a theme's theme.ini file. This tag
will be empty when XML_MODE is enabled.


BODY
------
Without this tag, Layout will not function. It must be present. All
unspecified content (i.e. not giving a content variable name) appears
here.


DEFAULT
--------
The other necessary tag. Any specified content with a variable
designation will appear here if not applied elsewhere. In other words,
if my module (named "mymod") has a content variable named "stuff" and
the theme doesn't have a theme_variable named "MYMOD_STUFF", it would
get dropped into the DEFAULT tag.



The next set of tags are not essential to the operation of the site.

SAMPLE
---------
Layout allows a theme to display code results from a theme.php
file. An example of this is included with the "default" theme. You can
remove it from your own theme.


LAYOUT_HEADER & LAYOUT_FOOTER
--------------
The Layout module lets an admin add content to the header and/or
footer using these tags. You don't have to include them but doing so
will cripple that capability.


The above are the only tags needed by the Layout module. Any other
tags are only to help in default module content placement.
