Database Assistance

PhpWebSite will attempt to create a database. If you do not get an
attempt prompt however you may need to create it yourself. Log in to
your database and create the database like so:

CREATE DATABASE phpwebsite

We recommend you invest in a web enabled database tool. We use
phpMyAdmin for MySQL and phpPgAdmin for Postgres. Both are excellent
web administration tools.

Make sure your database is running. It seems like a simple thing but
the service may be inactive.

Next check that your database type you choose matches the database
service running on your server. You could try running a grep on
services. For example, here is grep on MySQL.

ps -aux | grep mysql

In Windows, it should be easy enough to locate the database
installation in service administrator tools.

The best way to answer the above (and the rest of the questions) is to
log in to the database. If the service is not running, you won't be
able to get in... obviously.

If the service IS running but you can't login using the user name and
password you entered in the phpWebSite configuration, then you should
log in as root or administrator and check that the user has been
created. If so, the password may be at fault.

In most cases you will be running phpWebSite on the same server as the
database. This means you should leave the host reference as
"localhost". If you are running the database on a different server,
you will need to test your connection to that server. Check to see if
the database responds to a particular port. If so, make sure you enter
it correctly on in the configuration screen.

Finally, if you want to create the configuration file, but for some
reason DO NOT want it to check the connection, change the
CHECK_DB_CONNECTION value to FALSE in your setup/config.php file.


Other possible problems
---------------------------------------------------------------------

If you get this message : Notice: Missing a host reference.
and you are running Postgres try the following:
Leave host name blank (normally localhost) and change the host
reference port to 5432.
