Installing Fileinfo
by Matthew McNaney

Fileinfo is the php standard for mime file type identification. PHP no
longer supports mime_content_type. Instead you need to go through a
long process to install a library that isn't enabled in default
distributions.

File Cabinet will use fileinfo if it is installed. Otherwise it falls
back to mime_content_type. If that function doesn't exist, Pear's
compatibility function fills in by calling a shell function to the
"file" command native to Unix. If you don't have any of the above, you
can let File Cabinet guess the file type by the extension. Although
mime typing is not 100% exact, the forementioned method is really
dangerous. Rename virus.exe to nudity.jpg and let the fun begin.

In any case, the following will try and help you get fileinfo
installed. Just prior to writing this, I got it installed by putting
together information from Google searches. You may end up doing the
same in the end, but hopefully this will give you a launch point. This
document is written from an Ubuntu viewpoint. Adjust accordingly.

1) I installed Imagic:
   sudo apt-get install libmagic-dev
   
   I believe this installs the magic database file you will need
   later.

2) I installed the php5-dev files:
   sudo apt-get install php5-dev

   I tried to install fileinfo but was warned pecl wouldn't work until
   I installed...

3) sudo apt-get install php-pear
   phpWebSite uses its own pear libs so I never had this installed.
   Now I can install fileinfo using pecl

4) sudo pecl install fileinfo
   Finally we are getting somewhere! I restarted apache though and
   still couldn't call fileinfo functions. So on to

5) I editted my php.ini file and added the following line to the end:
   extension=fileinfo.so

   Note that extension=imagick.so was already there.

6) Restarted apache and fileinfo function kinda worked. I got this
   error:
   Failed to load magic database /etc/magic

   Sounds almost sarcastic no?
   So I look in /etc/ and there is a "magic" file but it is pretty
   empty so I made a symbolic link:

7) sudo ln -s /usr/share/file/magic magic.mime
   Notice the ".mime" portion. Although the error message says it is
   looking for a file named "magic", it is lying, it wants
   "magic.mime"


Good luck!
   